# CS-465
CS-465

**Architecture**

**Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?**

The Express-based customer-facing website provided fully rendered, modular (for the programmer, not the user) web pages to the user via a templating engine called Handlebars in concert with Express.  In contrast to the Express-based customer-facing website, the Admin SPA used the Angular framework to create a dynamic frontend web application.  This architecture was component-based and modular, allowing pages to be navigated and only the necessary portions of the page to update dynamically, rather than reloading the entire page.  Each component in the SPA communicates with the backend API asynchronously, ensuring real-time updates when administrators modify data.  Each request made by the Admin SPA is routed separately through the API to the Express backend, where the database processes requests asynchronously.  This modular nature provides administrators with near-instantaneous feedback when making changes.

The backend used a NoSQL database (in our case, MongoDB) because of the nature of a RESTful API. NoSQL databases such as MongoDB allow for the flexibility required to make the requests and results traffic back and forth to the server efficiently.  NoSQL databases allow the developer to use custom, flexible schemas as opposed to having to manipulate data between differently structured schemas in an SQL database.


**Functionality**

**How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?**

JSON, while technically a language, is more of a format than a programming language- much like Microsoft Excel has it's own language, but I wouldn't go so far as to call it a programming language.  JavaScript, on the other hand, is a programming language in its own right.  The JavaScript files' contents are programmed such that they use JSON to structure data in a specific manner (key/value pairs) to be passed back and forth between the frontend and backend.  To make an analogy here, if one were transporting clothing to wear on a vacation, JavaScript would be the process by which the passenger made their way to the airport, flew to the destination, and finally arrived at their destination quarters; whereas JSON would be their luggage.

**Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.**

One such instance was when I refactored code to pass the JWT (JSON Web TOken) as a string if it were requested via the API by the FrontEnd Angular site, but passed it as a cookie if being used by the Customer-Facing Express-based site, such that the user's browser stored the token until expiration (which I set for 7 days).  Another such instance, more towards the beginning of the project, was when I used handlebars to modularize the html components of the Express site, loading separate components such as the header and footer as partial handlebars components, instead of loading one single html page.  The benefits that come from reusable UI components are nearly identical to the benefits that come from any form of DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) coding, being able to use that exact component in several places without having to recreate it.  This not only allows the program to execute faster, but saves time in development, and in many cases results in less data being transferred, allowing for more efficient resource usage.

**Testing**

**Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.**

Testing with added layers of security certainly added a bit of difficulty.  As soon as I implented the first layer of security, I began to have issues accessing on the Angular site with specific modules not rendering due to security errors.  In a full stack application, methods are processes that perform a specific function, or set of functions.  For instance, the register function in my travlr web app sends an asynchronous request to the database, which generates an error message if any fields are left blank, else it creates a new user in the database, using the provided name, email, and password (There are functions called inside of this function, but I do not see a need to dive that deep down the rabbit hole).  This is also an example of a reusable UI component, as this function is used on both the Express site and Angular site in my web app (likely not everyone's, I added login/registration on the Express site though not required).  Endpoints, in the most basic of terms, are specific addresses that the program uses to send and receive specific data, in our case they are URLs, such as /login, or /register.  Security, in a full stack application is very important.  In our case, we use a single layer of security so far- this consists of JSON Web Tokens which check a user's session against the backend.  The user is only allowed to perform specific functions if the JWT matches that of the JWT issued to the logged in user.  

**Reflection**

**How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?**

This course has absolutely helped me reach professional goals.  First of all, this was my first exposure to JavaScript, so I felt the necessity to hop on CodeWars and spend several hours learning how to write JS to make relatively basic functions.  Doing this helped me to understand the provided source code in the course, which helped me gain an understanding of how the pieces of the puzzle are working together.  In a manner, everytime I am in a Computer Science course in SNHU Online, there is a certain amount of reverse engineering skill required, as we never seem to be writing code from the ground up.  We are always provided a mass amount of pre-written code, and then asked to edit small pieces of it.  In order to effectively write the code necessary, we have to be able to understand the existing code.  I certainly haven't "mastered" any skills in this course, I am so far from mastery of any programming skills, at least as I define mastery, that I can't even fathom what that level of skill looks like.  I have absolutely developed my skills in this course though, immensely so.  Just working with Angular, Express, Handlebars, MongoDB, Mongoose, Postman, MongoDB Compass, Powershell, and VS Code have shown me what goes into something as seemingly simple as a web page.  It was extremely useful for me to "get my hands dirty" using these tools, as it helped me gain perspective on how and why MVC Architecture exists, along with it's scope and purpose- with a deeper understanding of RESTful APIs, and NoSQL databases (and because of that, SQL databases as well).
